JUDY WOODRUFF: It was the most
highly anticipated meeting
yet of the Trump presidency.
For the first time since
he took office, Mr. Trump
was face-to-face with
his Russian counterpart,
Vladimir Putin.
On the agenda?
Syria, North Korea, and
Moscow's meddling in the 2016
election, about which there is
still disagreement.
From the G20 summit in Hamburg,
Germany, special correspondent
Ryan Chilcote reports.
RYAN CHILCOTE: What was planned
to last just over half-an-hour
turned into an unexpected
two hours and 15 minutes.
President Trump and
Russian President Vladimir
Putin began their much
anticipated face-to-face
by exchanging visibly friendly
greetings, given the state
of U.S.-Russia relations.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: We're going to
have a talk now, and obviously
that will continue.
But we look forward to a lot of
very positive things happening
for Russia, for the United
States and for
everybody concerned.
And it's an honor
to be with you.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through
translator): I'm delighted
to be able to meet
you personally, Mr. President,
and I hope, as you said, our
meeting will yield positive
results.
RYAN CHILCOTE: News of what was
discussed came afterward from
the countries' top diplomats,
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
and Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov, among them, allegations
that Russia meddled
in the U.S. election.
In an audio-only briefing,
Tillerson said Mr. Trump brought
up the issue at the outset,
and said the pair had a
robust and lengthy discussion.
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary
of State: The president opened
the meeting with President
Putin by raising the concerns
of the American people regarding
Russian interference in the
2016 election.
The two leaders agreed, though,
that this is a substantial
hindrance in the ability
of us to move the Russian-U.S.
relationship forward, and
agreed to exchange further work
regarding commitments of
noninterference in the
affairs of the United
States and our democratic
process, as well as
those of other countries.
RYAN CHILCOTE: Tillerson added,
Putin denied any involvement.
The Russian foreign minister
offered his own account.
SERGEI LAVROV, Russian Foreign
Minister (through translator):
President Trump said that the
campaign is already taking on
a rather strange character,
because during the many months
that these accusations
have been aired, there
hasn't been a single fact.
President Trump has said
he's heard President
Putin's definitive
statements that is not
true, and that the
Russian leadership didn't
intervene in the election,
and that he accepts
those statements.
RYAN CHILCOTE: Yesterday, Mr.
Trump conceded Russia likely
played a role, but stopped short
of blaming them solely
for the election hack.
Tillerson today said the
Russians asked for proof of
interference, but stressed, both
leaders agreed it's
best to move on.
REX TILLERSON: The president's
rightly focused on, how do we
move forward from what may be
simply an intractable
disagreement at this point?
And I think the relationship
-- and the president
made this clear as well
-- it's too important.
And it's too important to not
find a way to move forward,
not dismissing the issue in
any way.
RYAN CHILCOTE: The two leaders
also discussed a cease-fire
plan in place for southwestern
Syria.
REX TILLERSON: I think this is
our first indication of the U.S.
and Russia being able to work
together in Syria, and as a
result of that, we had a very
lengthy discussion regarding
other areas in Syria that we
can continue to work together
on to de-escalate the areas.
RYAN CHILCOTE: Tillerson,
though, reiterated
the U.S. position that
Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad must eventually
go, something Russia
has publicly opposed.
All the while, outside today's
summit, there was no letup
in massive demonstrations.
Clashes between protesters
and police engulfed Germany's
second largest city.
Police again resorted to
water cannons and tear gas to
disperse crowds, and scores were
arrested.
German officials say more
than 100 police officers
have been injured.
Meanwhile everyone here
inside the G20 conference
center, and, by that I
mean, not just journalists,
but a lot of the G20 delegations
as well, are focused on
trying to find out as much
as they possibly can what
actually was discussed
behind closed doors
between the presidents
of the United States
and Russia -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're right,
a lot of questions, Ryan,
two hours and 20 minutes.
But, first, this
contradiction that is
apparently there, you have
the Russian foreign minister
saying that President Trump
accent President Putin's denial
about Russian metaling and
then, as we heard, Secretary
of State Rex Tillerson is
saying they just -- they are
intractably in disagreement.
So, how do we read this?
RYAN CHILCOTE: Yes,
it's an interesting one.
The straight answer is,
we really don't know
exactly what was said.
The Russian foreign minister,
as you pointed out, did indeed
say that President Trump had
accepted President
Putin's denial.
Now, I thought about this.
You could have theoretically
accept something without
concurring with the view.
But that's not
what happened here.
I listened to all of the Russian
foreign minister's comments.
I have been speaking
Russian for 28 years.
And together with a group of six
native speakers, we went through
the entire statement on the
issue.
He went much further.
He said, right, that President
Trump has also asserted in this
meeting that he hadn't heard
a single fact in the
month of allegations of
meddling in the election.
Now, how does that meddle
-- sort of fit in with what
Rex Tillerson was saying?
Well, interesting, the U.S.
secretary of state kind of gave
us some mixed signals, didn't
he?
On one the hand, he began the
press conference by saying
that President Trump had really
pressed President Putin and
pushed him on this issue, but
he also said -- and I quote
- - "The two presidents didn't
relitigate the past, that
they were committed to working
towards the future."
And it was the U.S.' position
that the best way to do that
was to try in the future to
win some kind of guarantee,
some kind of commitment
in writing from the
Russians that they wouldn't
interfere in the future in U.S.
domestic policy or elections.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let
me turn you to Syria.
After the meeting, it was
announced that the two countries
have agreed on a cease-fire
for a part of Syria and
that ongoing civil war.
What do we know about
the details of that?
RYAN CHILCOTE: So, what we know
is that both the United States
and Russia have been discussing
this for some time.
It looks like most
of the agreement was
worked out in advance.
They signed a memorandum of
understanding between Russia,
the United States and Jordan
that they would have
a cease-fire that will
begin shortly in the
south in Syria, and that
there would be a plan to
de-escalate or lower, reduce the
violence in the southwest of the
country.
The secretary of state did
say that there was still a
couple more meetings that were
necessary, maybe another week
to work out the details of who
would actually be providing
security on the ground.
And I would point out that,
remember, it's not just Russia
and the United States that
have forces in Syria.
Iran does as well.
So it would be interesting
to see how they fit
into this agreement.
And I would also point out that
we have had four cease-fire
agreements before this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: True.
Ryan, finally, so many
journalists there and
others watching this
meeting today between
the Russian and
the U.S. president.
What are people taking away?
What did you take away from
this, I mean, in terms of how
they addressed -- how they
looked when they were
together, what they said?
RYAN CHILCOTE: Well, the
body language was warm.
There's no doubt.
There's no questioning that.
You could really see that.
President Putin, for his part,
when he was speaking Russian,
he was very differential.
He was very polite.
He was very -- went out of
his way to be respectful,
calling President Trump
"Mr. President" as
he addressed him.
And then we heard from
Rex Tillerson say that
their chemistry was
very positive, that they
immediately, almost immediately
took to one another.
And, interestingly, I thought
he also added that no one could
stop the meeting, that several
aides peaked in through the door
to try and break up the meeting.
And at one point, they even sent
Melania Trump into the meeting
to try and break it up, and
that she too failed, and
that the two presidents,
despite everyone else's
wishes, went on talking
for another hour because they
so enjoyed the conversation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Fascinating that
they ignored the first lady's
efforts to get it to stop.
All right, Ryan Chilcote,
reporting for us from
Hamburg, Germany, thank you.
And we will hear from
Britain's defense secretary,
Michael Fallon, on Syria,
on Russia and other
issues right after
the news summary.